RUIN BLADE MECHANICS 2018

The Ruin Blade has received an over haul for the 2018 patch. This document details doing finishing moves, directional, light & heavy attacks and damage amounts.


In the 2010 build the sword attacks were determined by which direction the player was holding. They could also move while attacking. 
Alternating the attack and alt attack keys would trigger finishing moves. These were the same moves which could be done through a sequence of keys as well... similar to Mortal Kombat. The system was not fully utilized due to lack of animations. It also feels off swinging a sword and moving at the same time. Because of this the player didn't really have to think and there weren't many benefits to using the finishing moves or directional attacks.

Before detailing how the new system works, one needs to understand how enemies react to pain in Rivensin. 
Enemies have a set amount of damage needed to trigger a high pain animation. Think of this as a stun system. Enemies will stop attacking while it is happening and some will fall down. The amount varies per enemy. How often this can happen is also set to prevent spamming. Player attacks have the ability to bypass the pain gauge, add to the enemy's pain gauge and not add to the pain gauge. In the 2010 build almost all melee combat just added to the pain gauge. A few did force it, such as pistol whips and finishing moves. It is also worth noting that some enemies feel no pain such as the Mancubus, and Revenant.

sword01

All attacks are now determined whether the player is moving, not moving, crouching, running or walking.
Below is a list of the attacks the player can do with the sword. This list will be updated as needed.

LIGHT ATTACKS:
Targets: single or multiple enemies
Directional based: Only when crouched.
Stunning: Adds to
Damage Amounts: 100%
Inputs: Hold the attack key while not moving or while crouched
Notes: Can be used while crouched or standing. Can be aimed up and down.

MEDIUM ATTACKS
Targets: multiple enemies
Directional based: yes
Stunning: Adds to
Damage Amounts: 110%
Inputs: Hold different directions while running plus the attack key
Notes: holding backwards and attacking will trigger a cleave attack

HEAVY ATTACKS
Targets: single
Directional based: yes
Stunning: Adds to
Damage Amounts: 125%
Inputs: Hold different directions while walking plus the attack key
Notes: holding backwards and attacking will trigger a thrust attack

FINISHERS
Finishing moves are done via sequence of key presses. They are very simple and fast to perform. Rivensin's enemies are aggressive and don't stand around waiting to attack. The inputs in the 2018 release are easier to perform than the 2010 versions to make them more useful. Each move has it's benefits. Damage amounts, when the damage occurs during the animations and ability to stun or not stun the enemy have been updated.

SPIN ATTACK
Targets: multiple
Stunning: Adds to
Damage Amounts: 120% + 120%
Inputs: left, right, right
Notes: Hits all targets around the player. enemies in front of the player could be hit twice.

DOUBLE TAP
Targets: multiple
Stunning: Adds to, then Forced
Damage Amounts: 125% + 125%
Inputs: right, left, left
Notes: Hits multiple targets in front of the player twice. Second hit stuns.

SPINNING BACK STAB
Targets: single
Stunning: Adds to, then Forced, then adds to.
Damage Amounts: 100% + 300% + 100%
Inputs: forward, backward, backward
Notes: Strongest finishing move. The backwards stab during the attack will stun an enemy.

DASHING THRUST
Targets: single
Stunning: Forced
Damage Amounts: 150%
Inputs: backward, forward, forward
Notes: Great for getting close to enemies fast and setting them up for heavier attacks.

HIGH KICK
Targets: single
Stunning: Forced
Damage Amounts: 300% kick damage
Inputs: While holding crouch, press the walk key.
Notes: Kicks do less damage than the sword. Can be performed with any weapon

ROUND HOUSE KICK
Targets: multiple
Stunning: Forced
Damage Amounts: 200% kick damage
Inputs: While holding the walk key, press crouch.
Notes: Great to stun all enemies around the player. Can be performed with any weapon

TIPS & TRICKS:
-Animation Cancelling: medium attacks, heavy attacks, and finishers cancel out light attacks. You can use this to your advantage to chain attacks together and increase damage output quicker
-The cleave attack can be done in the air. It is the strongest attack you can do off the ground
-The player is free to move and light attack at the same time if they are crouched.
-The color of the trail the sword makes during swings helps indicate what type of attack is playing.